feat(event/doc): trigger server method (#462)
citizenfx/fivem-docs: content/docs/scripting-reference/runtimes/lua/functions/TriggerServerEvent.md

title: TriggerServerEvent
---

## What is TriggerServerEvent?

> `TriggerServerEvent` is a function in FiveM that allows you to trigger a specified event, optionally passing along additional data. This function is integral for communication within the client-server scripts, enabling different parts of your resources to interact with each other seamlessly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TriggerServerEvent` is a function in FiveM that allows you to trigger a server event from the client.
```

```lua
local function updatePlayerScore(name, score)
    -- Will display on server console
    print(string.format('Player %s has a new score of %d', name, score))
end

RegisterNetEvent('myCustomServerEvent', updatePlayerScore)

-- Trigger the command "event" to start the function on client
RegisterCommand("event", function(source, args, rawCommand)
    TriggerServerEvent('myCustomServerEvent', 'JohnDoe', 100)
end, false)
```

In this example, the `updatePlayerScore` function is defined and used directly as the event handler. This approach allows for cleaner code and easier maintenance.

## Best Practices

1. **Consistent Naming**: Use clear and consistent naming conventions for your events to avoid confusion and make your code more readable.

2. **Minimal Data Passing**: Only pass the necessary data with your events to keep them lightweight and efficient.

3. **Error Handling**: Ensure that your event handlers include error handling to manage any unexpected issues that may arise when processing events.

4. **Documentation**: Document your custom events and their expected parameters to make your code easier to understand and maintain.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> `TriggerServerEvent` is a powerful tool in FiveM scripting that helps different parts of your script communicate from client to server. By using events and passing data, you can create whether you're updating player scores, handling database, or managing game informations, `TriggerServerEvent` helps keep your code organized and efficient. Use it to make your FiveM scripts more modular and responsive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
